---
author: admin
date: '2005-05-26 10:37:20'
layout: post
slug: '8'
status: publish
title: Using Greasemonkey To Fix Other's Bugs
wordpress_id: '39'
categories:
- Linux
- RIA
---

Ever since I got into Macromedia Flex I have not been able to view .mxml
applications in any Mozilla based browser on Linux. Mozilla for some reason
cuts off the Flash at around 240 pixels in width. I have searched the web and
Mozilla's Bugzilla trying to find others who have also experienced this
problem. I haven't found much. A few Mozilla bugs seem to indicate others had
this same problem. But not enough for anyone at Mozilla or even Macromedia to
care. There has only been 1 post about this issue on the flexcoders Yahoo
list. So not really a big deal, except to those of us on Linux!

It seems that the problem is with percentage width embedded objects inside
percentage width tables. When writing mxml applications I can easily work
around the issue by not using a table. However, anytime I view someone else's
application who has not worked around this bug, I only see the left 240 pixels
of the application. I could try to file a bug with Mozilla, but I think that's
been done and didn't get the issue resolved. Greasemonkey to the rescue!

Greasemonkey is a Firefox extension which lets me easily manipulate web pages
when they are loaded in my browser. So I wrote a simple Greasemonkey script
which fixes the problem! Fo those interested, here is what you need to do...

Install the Greasemonkey extension from:
[http://greasemonkey.mozdev.org/](http://greasemonkey.mozdev.org/) Install my
user script from: [http://www.cayambe.com/fix_embed_percentage_bug.user.js](ht
tp://www.cayambe.com/fix_embed_percentage_bug.user.js) Go to: [http://flexapps
.macromedia.com/flex15/explorer/explorer.mxml](http://flexapps.macromedia.com/
flex15/explorer/explorer.mxml)

or any other Flex application and you should see the full application!

My script is just a hack. If you have any ideas for improving it, please let
me know!

