---
author: admin
date: '2007-12-18 17:14:59'
layout: post
slug: upcoming-events-codemash-ria-jam-flex-turbogears-jam
status: publish
title: 'Upcoming Events: CodeMash, RIA Jam, Flex-TurboGears Jam'
wordpress_id: '220'
categories:
- Adobe AIR
- Flex
- Python
- RIA
- Silverlight
---

It's hard to believe that 2007 is almost over. It's been an amazing year!
Thanks for reading and contributing. I'm looking forward to another great year
in 2008. And it all begins when I hit the road the second week of January for
[CodeMash 2008](http://www.codemash.org). I went to CodeMash last year and
really enjoyed the conference, especially the water slides. :) I'll be
speaking again at CodeMash 2008 about Adobe AIR and Flex.

The week following CodeMash there will be a [RIA Jam in Ann
Arbor](http://www.mindviewinc.com/Conferences/RIAJam/Index.php). The RIA Jam
will be hosted by [SRT Solutions](http://srtsolutions.com/) and [Bruce
Eckel](http://www.mindview.net/). My friend and co-RIA-conspirator, [Josh
Holmes](http://blogs.msdn.com/joshholmes/), will also be there helping people
learn Silverlight while I help people learn Flex and AIR. In February Bruce
will also be hosting another [Flex Jam in Crested Butte,
Colorado](http://www.mindviewinc.com/Conferences/FlexTGJam/Index.php). The Jam
in February will cover Flex, TurboGears, integrating the two and hopefully
some exploratory work into integrating Flex with [Lift](http://liftweb.net),
the new Scala based web framework. I will be there helping people learn Flex
and undoubtedly learning some new things myself.

The Jam and Open Spaces style events that Bruce hosts are my favorite events
of the year. The events in Crested Butte are always so refreshing. While most
conferences keep me indoors for days at a time, Bruce's event encourage
attendees to get outside, into open spaces. For me this helps to relax my mind
which makes it much easier to learn and focus. At the Crested Butte events in
the summer we hike for a few hours every day and in the winter we ski /
snowshoe. These events are also incredibly affordable since there isn't a high
cost associated with putting them on. And as a bonus attendees to the Jams
will receive a free copy of Flex Builder 2. If you are learning Flex, no
matter what level, you will learn more in these few days than you will at any
other conference. They are hands-on events so you actually learn through
experimentation and peer interaction.

I'll be at many other events in 2008 and hope to see many of you somewhere
along the way. Until then have a happy and safe holiday season.

