---
author: admin
date: '2007-12-04 11:54:23'
layout: post
slug: flash-player-9-update-3-sim-ships-on-windows-mac-and-linux
status: publish
title: Flash Player 9 Update 3 Sim-Ships on Windows, Mac, and Linux
wordpress_id: '213'
categories:
- Flash Player
- Flex
- Java
---

Yesterday was a monumental day for Flash Player. For the first time ever, a
major release of Flash Player was simultaneously shipped for all three of the
major operating systems - Windows, Mac, and Linux! This illustrates Adobe's
commitment to being truly cross-platform. There isn't a ubiquitous platform in
existence that is as committed to cross-platform compatibility as Adobe is
with Flash Player. This is one of the things I love about Flash Player. Sun
promised us "Write Once, Run Anywhere" with Java and yet they have never been
able to really deliver it. Theoretically maybe, but in reality how many Java
apps / applets do you see with the breadth of use that Flash Player has?
Despite Java's disappointing failure of true ubiquitous cross-platform
compatibility I am hopeful that the OpenJDK will fix this. The OpenJDK does
seem to be fixing the recent problem of Java 6 not being available on OS X.

Congrats to the Flash Player team! This is a significant milestone that
everyone benefits from!

For those of you building Flex applications you can download the debug
versions of this new release
[here](http://www.adobe.com/support/flashplayer/downloads.html). Also there is
more information about all the great new features and bug fixes in this
release on [Tinic's blog](http://www.kaourantin.net/2007/12/adobe-flash-
player-9-update-3-released.html), [Mike's blog](http://blogs.adobe.com/penguin
.swf/2007/12/flash_player_9_update_3_final.html), and [Emmy's blog](http://web
logs.macromedia.com/emmy/archives/2007/12/flash_player_9_10.cfm).

