---
author: admin
date: '2008-04-23 09:01:49'
layout: post
slug: talkin-about-a-revolution
status: publish
title: Talkin' About a Revolution
wordpress_id: '264'
categories:
- Adobe AIR
- Flash Player
- Flex
- Linux
---

![](http://www.jamesward.org/wordpress/wp-
content/uploads/2007/10/tux_w_fx_flag_blog.png)Revolutions may be enabled by
technology, but they are driven by people. Adobe’s recent announcements about
Flex, Flash, and Adobe AIR on Linux are the most recent technology enablers
for the software revolution that is currently underway.

Usually I'm one of the first to post about Adobe's Linux related
announcements. My trip to Bangalore, India, however, made me a little late to
the party this time. In case you haven't seen [the announcements](http://www.a
dobe.com/aboutadobe/pressroom/pressreleases/200803/033108AdobeAIRforLinux.html
), on March 31, 2008 Adobe released an alpha version of Adobe AIR on Linux and
an update to the alpha version of Flex Builder 3 for Linux (which supports
building AIR applications on Linux). On the same day Adobe also announced that
we joined the Linux Foundation.

In [a post about the announcement](http://weblogs.macromedia.com/jd/archives/2
008/03/what_airlinux_m.cfm), JD points to [one of my old blog
posts](http://www.jamesward.org/wordpress/2006/10/19/flash-flex-free-for-all-
even-linux/), which still accurately echoes the significance of this
announcement - "... for the first time EVER, nearly everyone in the world has
access to a FREE, ubiquitous application runtime, and a FREE application
development toolkit for that runtime! Of course I'm referring to Flash Player
9 and the free Flex 2 SDK." Now I can update this statement "For the first
time EVER, everyone in the world has access to a FREE, ubiquitous web runtime,
a FREE cross-OS desktop runtime, and a FREE, open source, and mature
development toolkit for those runtimes! Of course I'm referring to Flash
Player 9, Adobe AIR, and the Flex 3 SDK." This is huge. We can now build real
software once and have it run on every major OS and in every major browser –
and we can do it using open source tools!

Why the excitement? Haven't we had this for years - with Java? QT? GTK?
True... in theory. We've had the technology; but we always lacked a critical
mass of people that were actually using it for wide reaching, real software.
There are now countless companies - including Oracle, SAP, Salesforce.com,
Intuit, E*Trade, eBay, AOL, NASDAQ, Yahoo!, and numerous startups – that are
using Flex to build real software for Flash Player on the web and Adobe AIR on
the desktop. This kind of software revolution is reminiscent of the transition
from client-server to web applications. The movement is real. The technology
is mature (even the new Adobe AIR desktop runtime consists primarily of
mature, proven technologies like Flash Player, Tamarin, SQLite, and Webkit).
Software is changing for the better, especially for those of us on Linux.

I now have several desktop applications installed on Linux - such as the eBay
Desktop - which I would never have had before AIR worked on Linux. Most
companies simply do not invest time and money building or porting their
software for such a small customer base. With AIR it doesn't matter. Companies
build the software once and it works on the web, on the desktop, on Windows,
on Mac, on Linux. This is a software revolution not because the technology
exists, but because people - lots of people - are actually using it.

Today we call the products of this software revolution "Rich Internet
Applications". In ten years it'll just be "software".

