---
author: admin
date: '2011-10-17 08:16:13'
layout: post
slug: learning-scala-function-literals
status: publish
title: 'Learning Scala: Function Literals'
wordpress_id: '2694'
categories:
- Scala
---

I've gradually been learning Scala over the past few months and I really have
been enjoying it. For me Scala is like Shakespeare. It seems familiar and
totally foreign at the same time. I don't enjoy Shakespeare plays nearly as
much as someone who has taken the time to learn the language of Shakespeare.
Some have interpreted Scala being "familiar yet totally foreign" as Scala
being "hard" but I'd say it's just different. With Scala there is probably
more about programming that I need to unlearn than to learn. My perspectives
on programming languages have been shaped by the ones I've used most (Java,
ActionScript, etc). And now my perspecives are being reshaped. It might take
some time and work but I believe that using Scala will soon be very enjoyable
for me.

Ok, enough fluff lets see some code!

My friend [Mike Slinn](http://www.mslinn.com/blog/) and I have been learning
[BlueEyes](https://github.com/jdegoes/blueeyes) - a lightweight Scala web 3.0
framework. We encountered a piece of Scala that seemed strange and unfamiliar
to us:

    
    
    get { request =>
      // do something
    }
    

  
To a Java developer like me this was pretty foreign. I was able to understand
this after I encountered _Function Literals_ in the free [Scala for the
Impatient](http://typesafe.com/resources/scala-for-the-impatient) book. So let
me break down what is happening here with another example. Lets start with
writing a regular function that takes a _Char_ parameter and returns a
_Boolean_ if the provided _Char_ was the letter "l":

    
    
    def lls(p: Char): Boolean = { p == 'l' }
    

  
This is a pretty straight forward (albeit slightly verbose) function
definition. Oh, and I should mention that if you [download Scala](http://www
.scala-lang.org/downloads) and run the REPL (a command line interpreter), then
you can actually try this code yourself. To start the Scala REPL just run the
"scala" command.

Ok, lets test out that function:

    
    
    lls('p') // outputs false
    lls('l') // outputs true
    

  
That should all be somewhat familiar looking for a Java developer. But here is
where things begin to look more foreign. The [StringOps](http://www.scala-
lang.org/api/current/index.html#scala.collection.immutable.StringOps) class in
Scala has a _count_ method that takes something very peculiar looking. From
the ScalaDoc:

    
    
    def count (p: (Char) â‡’ Boolean): Int
    

  
That is saying that _count_ takes a function as an argument. Scala is this
wonderful blend of Object Oriented and Functional so this is instantly strange
to the Java developer in me. In this case the function that _count_ is taking
must have a single parameter of type _Char_ and then return a _Boolean_. So
lets try to pass the _lls_ function to _count_ on a _StringOps_ instance.
Somehow with Scala's Type Inference system we can just use a regular double-
quoted _String_ and Scala will figure out that we need a _StringOps_ instead.
So let's create a _StringOps_ object and call count on it passing it the _lls_
function:

    
    
    "Hello".count(lls) // outputs 2
    

  
I could have assigned "Hello" to a variable and done it that way but opted to
just make the _count_ call without assigning it. So _count_ correctly took the
_lls_ function and used it to count the number of "l" _Chars_ in the _String_
(or _SpringOps_). That all works as expected.

But, there is another (prettier) way to do the same thing:

    
    
    "Hello" count lls // outputs 2
    

  
We can drop the dot operator and parenthesis and everything still works. But
there is another way... Instead of referencing a function we can just pass the
function definition directly into the count method:

    
    
    "Hello" count { p:Char => p == 'l' } // outputs 2
    

  
This is a **Function Literal** - or as Dick Wall tells me, a predicate in this
case since it returns a _Boolean_. A Function Literal is a short way to define
a function that takes only one parameter and returns what is needed by
whatever the function is being passed to. In this case the function parameter
is still a Char with an identifier of "p" and the function body simply
compares "p" with the 'l' _Char_. In Scala the value of the last statement in
a function is returned. So the _Boolean_ is returned from the function. That
type is inferred. And the _Char_ type declaration on "p" could have been left
off and inferred making it:

    
    
    "Hello" count { p => p == 'l' } // outputs 2
    

  
Now that code I started with is making a lot more sense!

But it doesn't stop there. With Scala we can be even more concise:

    
    
    "Hello" count { _ == 'l' } // still outputs 2
    

  
Now I must admit that I haven't really learned what that "_" thing does. So I
don't totally understand this code yet. But like learning to understand
Shakespeare we have to take it one step at a time. I will leave that to
another day and maybe another blog post. I hope this was helpful for other
Scala noobs. Let me know what you think and if you have any questions.

